# CO2-Analysis-with-PCA-and-KPCA-
Feature Extraction Methods for LA Ozone and CO2 Data

The final version of the report can be found in "PSTAT_262_FE_Final_Callum_Weinberg_Report.pdf". The final version of the statistical code can be found in "CO2-Analysis-with-PCA-and-KPCA.Rmd". "CO2-Analysis-with-PCA-and-KPCA.html" contains an html file version of this code.

The EPA Ozone data and Vulcan CO2 Data are both large datasets and therefore are not available in github in their raw formats.

For the EPA Ozone data, the compressed file is available in "Raw/EPA_Air_Data/hourly_44201_2014.zip" In order to run the markdown file on a local clone of this project, unzip that file in its current folder. Alternatively, R Markdown code-chunk "load_epa_ozone" can be ignored and the user can start with the code chunk "load_limited_epa_ozone", which starts with the file "Intermediate/ozone_la_california.Rdata". This file was generated by the author and is just the EPA data limited to Los Angeles County.

For the Vulcan CO2 data, the .nc4 files do not compress well and therefore no version of the data could be uploaded to this repository. Therefore a user will either need to ignore the code chunk "load_vulcan_co2" and start with the code chunk "create_long_wide_co2" and the Rdata file "Intermediate/CO2_Long_v1.Rdata" (that was produced by the author). Or they will need to download the Vulcan CO2 data files and place them in the folder "Raw/Vulcan_CO2/March2014/". A list of the files used in the analysis is provided in "Raw/Vulcan_CO2/March2014/List_of_Files.txt". Note these files are roughly 30GB in total.
